docs/planning-data-flow.md, before:

# Planning Data Flow Documentation

## Overview
The Job Center planning interface allows supervisors to sequence jobs and calculate timing, which must be persisted to the `mach_planning` table for operators to view.

## Current Architecture

### Tables Involved
1. **operations** - Stores job details with `op_seq` field for sequencing
2. **mach_planning** - Stores planned sequence with calculated start/end times
3. **localStorage** - Browser storage for offline capability and draft saves

## Data Flow Workflow

### 1. Planning Interface Load (planning.php)
- Load existing plan from `mach_planning` table if exists for machine/date/shift
- If no database plan exists, load unsequenced jobs from `operations` table
- Apply any localStorage draft if newer than database version

### 2. Supervisor Makes Changes
- Drag-and-drop jobs to sequence them
- System calculates start/end times based on:
  - Shift start time (A: 06:00, B: 14:00, C: 22:00)
  - Setup time per job
  - Production time per job
  - Changeover time between jobs
- Changes saved to localStorage immediately for draft protection

### 3. Save Sequence Action
- When supervisor clicks "Save Sequence" or exits to operator view:
  1. Update `operations.op_seq` with sequence numbers
  2. Insert/Update records in `mach_planning` table with:
     - Machine ID
     - Work date
     - Shift
     - Job ID (op_id)
     - Sequence number
     - Calculated start time
     - Calculated end time
     - Operator who planned
     - Timestamp
  3. Clear localStorage draft

### 4. Operator View Load (timeline.php)
- Primary: Load from `mach_planning` table for machine/date/shift
- Fallback: Check localStorage if database is empty
- Display jobs on timeline using calculated times

## API Endpoints

### planning.php Actions
- **load_planning**: Get existing plan from mach_planning
- **update_sequence**: Save sequence to operations.op_seq
- **save_to_mach_planning**: Save calculated times to mach_planning table

## Time Calculation Logic
```
shift_start = shift_start_time (06:00, 14:00, or 22:00)
current_time = shift_start

for each job in sequence:
    job.start_time = current_time
    job.end_time = current_time + setup_time + production_time
    current_time = job.end_time + changeover_time
```

## localStorage Keys
- Planning draft: `planning_sequence_${MACHINE_ID}_${WORK_DATE}_${SHIFT}`
- Contains: Array of job objects with calculated times

## Error Handling
- Database write failures: Keep localStorage as backup
- Network issues: Work offline with localStorage
- Conflicting edits: Last write wins with timestamp comparison

Commit message:

Implement carryover workflow with clean architecture separation
Architecture Decision:
- Timeline (index.php): Simple read-only view of mach_planning for date/machine
- Planning (planning.php): Handles ALL complexity including carryover logic
- Clean separation of concerns between operator view and supervisor planning

Features Implemented:
- Automatic detection of incomplete jobs from previous date on planning load
- Modal interface for supervisor to select jobs to carry over
- Categorization: Started jobs (3-9) auto-selected, Not started (0-2) not selected
- Selected jobs: Updated to current date with new sequences
- Unselected jobs: Removed from mach_planning, released back to pool
- Timeline shows simple, consolidated view of what supervisor saved

Workflow:
1. Supervisor opens planning page
2. System checks for incomplete jobs from previous date
3. Modal shows categorized jobs with checkboxes
4. Supervisor selects jobs to carry over
5. System updates selected jobs to current date
6. Consolidated plan saved to mach_planning
7. Operators see clean, simple timeline view

Benefits:
- No confusion for operators - they see exactly what was planned
- Full control for supervisors over production continuity
- Clean data flow: Planning → mach_planning → Timeline
- All business logic isolated in planning interface
- Simple, fast queries in timeline view

Documentation:
- Created architecture-decisions.md documenting the design
- Updated planning-data-flow.md with carryover workflow
- Updated CLAUDE.md with key design decisions

This ensures production continuity while maintaining clean, understandable code.

docs/planning-data-flow.md, after:

# Planning Data Flow Documentation

## Overview
The Job Center planning interface allows supervisors to sequence jobs and calculate timing, which must be persisted to the `mach_planning` table for operators to view.

## Current Architecture

### Tables Involved
1. **operations** - Stores job details with `op_seq` field for sequencing
2. **mach_planning** - Stores planned sequence with calculated start/end times
3. **localStorage** - Browser storage for offline capability and draft saves

## Data Flow Workflow

### 1. Planning Interface Load (planning.php)
- Load existing plan from `mach_planning` table if exists for machine/date/shift
- Check for incomplete jobs from previous date:
  - Started but not complete (status 3-9)
  - Planned but not started (status 0-2)
- Show modal for supervisor to select jobs to carry over
- If no database plan exists, load unsequenced jobs from `operations` table
- Apply any localStorage draft if newer than database version

### 2. Supervisor Makes Changes
- Drag-and-drop jobs to sequence them
- System calculates start/end times based on:
  - Shift start time (A: 06:00, B: 14:00, C: 22:00)
  - Setup time per job
  - Production time per job
  - Changeover time between jobs
- Changes saved to localStorage immediately for draft protection

### 3. Save Sequence Action
- When supervisor clicks "Save Sequence" or exits to operator view:
  1. Update `operations.op_seq` with sequence numbers
  2. Insert/Update records in `mach_planning` table with:
     - Machine ID
     - Work date
     - Shift
     - Job ID (op_id)
     - Sequence number
     - Calculated start time
     - Calculated end time
     - Operator who planned
     - Timestamp
  3. Clear localStorage draft

### 4. Operator View Load (index.php → timeline.php)
- Simple query: Load from `mach_planning` table for machine/date ONLY
- No complex logic or carryover handling
- Display exactly what supervisor saved
- Jobs are already consolidated including any carryovers

## API Endpoints

### planning.php Actions
- **load_planning**: Get existing plan from mach_planning
- **update_sequence**: Save sequence to operations.op_seq
- **save_to_mach_planning**: Save calculated times to mach_planning table
- **get_previous_jobs**: Check for incomplete jobs from previous date
- **handle_previous_jobs**: Carry over selected jobs and release others

## Time Calculation Logic
```
shift_start = shift_start_time (06:00, 14:00, or 22:00)
current_time = shift_start

for each job in sequence:
    job.start_time = current_time
    job.end_time = current_time + setup_time + production_time
    current_time = job.end_time + changeover_time
```

## localStorage Keys
- Planning draft: `planning_sequence_${MACHINE_ID}_${WORK_DATE}_${SHIFT}`
- Contains: Array of job objects with calculated times

## Carryover Workflow

### Previous Day Job Handling
1. **Detection**: On planning page load, check for incomplete jobs from previous date
2. **Categorization**:
   - Started jobs (status 3-9): Auto-selected for carryover
   - Not started jobs (status 0-2): Not selected by default
3. **Supervisor Decision**:
   - Select jobs to carry over to current date
   - Unselected jobs are released back to pool
4. **Processing**:
   - Selected jobs: Update date, recalculate sequence, maintain status
   - Unselected jobs: Delete from mach_planning, clear op_seq
5. **Result**: Consolidated plan saved to mach_planning for current date

## Error Handling
- Database write failures: Keep localStorage as backup
- Network issues: Work offline with localStorage
- Conflicting edits: Last write wins with timestamp comparison
- Carryover conflicts: Supervisor resolves through modal interface
